DOCS-767: Document the ODrive repo (#8)
viamrobotics/odrive: README.md

# ODrive S1 Modular Component

This module provides an implementation of ODrive Robotics' [ODrive S1](https://odriverobotics.com/shop/odrive-s1) motor driver as a modular resource [extending](https://docs.viam.com/extend/modular-resources/) the Viam motor API.
Prepare your ODrive and configure the module and resource to integrate an `odrive-serial` or `odrive-canbus` [motor](https://docs.viam.com/components/motor/#API) into your robot. 

## Getting Started
* See the [ODrive documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/getting-started.html) to configure and tune your motor properly. 
This configuration remains on the same ODrive motor controller across reboots, and only changes when you go through the configuration of the ODrive again.

> * See the [ODrive CAN documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/can-guide.html) for detailed information on how to set up CAN on your odrive. 

Author: ```suggestion
* See the [ODrive CAN documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/can-guide.html) for detailed information on how to set up CAN on your ODrive. 
```

Make sure that you have:

>     * enabled SPI communication on your SBC

Reviewer: no this line is rapsberry pi specific.
```suggestion
    * enabled SPI communication on your Raspberry Pi to use several common CANHats, other single board computers may have other ways of setting up CANBus communications.
```

Author: Ok changed, thank you!

>     * installed `odrivetool`, `python-can`, `cantools`, and a [`viam-sdk`](https://python.viam.dev)

Author: @randhid re. url, is this only supported in the Python SDK?

Reviewer: yes, this is a python only module if that's what you're asking

Author: @randhid Ok cool -- I'll add a note indicating that for users into the docs page

>     * installed `odrivetool`, `python-can`, `cantools`, and a [`viam-sdk`](https://python.viam.dev)

Author: ```suggestion
    * installed `odrivetool`, `python-can`, `cantools`, and [Python `viam-sdk`](https://python.viam.dev)
```

### Connect your ODrive to your single-board computer

> * `"serial"`: plug the [USB Isolator for ODrive](https://odriverobotics.com/shop/usb-c-to-usb-a-cable-and-usb-isolator) into a USB port on your board, and then plug a USB-C to USB-A cable from the isolator to the Odrive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"odrive-serial"`: plug the [USB Isolator for ODrive](https://odriverobotics.com/shop/usb-c-to-usb-a-cable-and-usb-isolator) into a USB port on your board, and then plug a USB-C to USB-A cable from the isolator to the Odrive.
```

> * `"canbus"`: wire the CANH and CANL pins from your board to your ODrive. Refer to the [ODrive pinout diagram](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/pinout.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"odrive-canbus"`: wire the CANH and CANL pins from your board to your ODrive. Refer to the [ODrive pinout diagram](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/pinout.html). 
```

>     * You will have had to make a `serial` connection initially when setting up the ODrive (see *Getting Started*). After setting up the ODrive, you can either leave the serial connection plugged in, or remove it and just leave the CANH and CANL pins wired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * When making the initial connection to set up the ODrive (see *Getting Started*), you have to make a `serial` connection. After setting up the ODrive, you can either leave the serial connection plugged in, or remove it and just leave the CANH and CANL pins wired.
```

>     * You must run `sudo ip link set can0 up type can bitrate <baud_rate>` in your terminal to receive CAN messages. See *Troubleshooting: CAN Link Issues* for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Raspberry Pi specific] You must run `sudo ip link set can0 up type can bitrate <baud_rate>` in your terminal to receive CAN messages. See *Troubleshooting: CAN Link Issues* for more details.
```

>     * [Raspberry Pi specific] You must run `sudo ip link set can0 up type can bitrate <baud_rate>` in your terminal to receive CAN messages. See *Troubleshooting: CAN Link Issues* for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * [Raspberry Pi specific]: You must run `sudo ip link set can0 up type can bitrate <baud_rate>` in your terminal to receive CAN messages. See *Troubleshooting: CAN Link Issues* for more details.
```

### Connect your ODrive to your single-board computer
* `"odrive-serial"`: plug the [USB Isolator for ODrive](https://odriverobotics.com/shop/usb-c-to-usb-a-cable-and-usb-isolator) into a USB port on your board, and then plug a USB-C to USB-A cable from the isolator to the Odrive.
* `"odrive-canbus"`: wire the CANH and CANL pins from your board to your ODrive. Refer to the [ODrive pinout diagram](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/pinout.html). 
    * When making the initial connection to set up the ODrive (see *Getting Started*), you have to make a `serial` connection. After setting up the ODrive, you can either leave the serial connection plugged in, or remove it and just leave the CANH and CANL pins wired.
    * [Raspberry Pi specific]: You must run `sudo ip link set can0 up type can bitrate <baud_rate>` in your terminal to receive CAN messages. See *Troubleshooting: CAN Link Issues* for more details.

## Configuration

To add an `odrive-canbus` or `odrive-serial` motor, update the JSON from the template with the following:

    * Update the `executable_path` (string) to the location of `run.sh` on your machine

>     * (For `"canbus"` connection) update the `canbus_node_id` (int) to the node ID of whichever CAN node you'd like to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * (For the `odrive-canbus`  model) update the `canbus_node_id` (int) to the node ID of whichever CAN node you'd like to use
```

    * Only add this attribute if you want to reconfigure your ODrive natively each time the motor is initialized on the robot.
       * Extract your configurations from your ODrive. To do so you must have `odrivetool` installed. See the [ODrive documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html) for instructions on how to do this.
       * After installing `odrivetool` run `odrivetool backup-config config.json` to extract your configs to a file called `config.json`. See [ODrive instructions](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html#configuration-backup) for more info.
       * `iq_msg_rate_ms` in the config defaults to `0`. Set this to or around `100` to use the [motor API's `SetPower` method](https://docs.viam.com/components/motor/#setpower).
    * (For `"canbus"` connection) If you add an `odrive_config_file`, you will have to leave the ODrive plugged in to the USB port in addition to wiring the CANH and CANL pins.
    * An alternative to adding an `odrive_config_file` is running the command `odrivetool restore-config /path/to/config.json` in your terminal.
    * See sample-configs/config.json for a sample ODrive config file.

> 2. `serial_number`: serial number of the ODrive (string).

Reviewer: @martha-johnston, what do you think of breaking these config instructions out out by model?

Reviewer 3: that sounds good to me. I'm not sure what the best way to do it would be since there is some overlap in the serial and can bus instructions, but if we don't care about it being repetitive then yeah that works

Reviewer: @sguequierre do you want to do this or keep documentation in its current form for now?

Author: Hmm-- I agree with Martha that the overlap could be too much here. I could try converting at least some of this to a table like in https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/pull/1446 to simplify the attribute info?

| `serial_number` | string | Optional | The serial number of the ODrive. Note that this is not necessary if you only have one ODrive connected. See [Troubleshooting](#hanging) for help finding this value. |
| `canbus_baud_rate` | string | Optional | [Baud rate](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/can-guide.html#setting-up-the-odrive) of the ODrive CAN protocol. This attribute is only available for `"odrive-canbus"` connections. </br> Use [`odrivetool`](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html) to obtain this value with `<odrv>.can.config.baud_rate`. Format the string as a multiple of 1000 (k). <br> Example: `"250k"` |

### Add an odrive_config_file

To add an `odrive_config_file` and reconfigure your ODrive natively each time the motor is initialized on the robot:

1. Extract your configurations from your ODrive. To do so you must [have `odrivetool` installed](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html).

> 2. After installing `odrivetool` run `odrivetool backup-config config.json` to extract your configs to a file called `config.json`. See the [ODrive documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html#configuration-backup) for more info.

Author: ```suggestion
After installing `odrivetool` run `odrivetool backup-config config.json` to extract your configs to a file called `config.json`.
See the [ODrive documentation](https://docs.odriverobotics.com/v/latest/odrivetool.html#configuration-backup) for more info.
```
